hey guys it's Greta here and today I'm
here to talk about my top 10 marketing
strategies that have helped me create
for multi-million dollar ecommerce
brands that have over eight figures in
combined revenue
[Music]
so my number one tip is to focus on
organic social and the good part about
this is that this is free marketing so I
have built all of my brands as social
first brands we've always started with
Instagram marketing so that's a great
place to start to build a community and
an audience around your product either
before you've launched or as soon as
possible after when it comes to organic
social I often talk about my three C's
of community so there's content
collaboration and consistency when it
comes to content my number one tip would
be to recreate your top performing
content so jump into your analytics if
you're on a business account if you're
not you can easily convert across jump
in there have a look at your top
performing content because that is the
type of content that your audience wants
to see and engages with the most simply
recreate it to focus on that more and
more my second C is collaboration so
that might be collaborating with
influences or other pages or brands in
your category they don't necessarily
need to be competitors but just similar
category brands so the drop bottle that
might be a hydration mix because we
don't do one yet so it's brands that are
also helping solve the same problem as
you and the focus with collaboration is
that you use this as your core growth
lever on social so you're basically
being able to leverage their
pre-existing audience to help grow your
own and then the third C is consistency
so that's not only important so that
you're establishing front of mind
recognition for your brand through
repetition but it's also really
important because the algorithm on
social media favors consistency it
favors the frequency in which you post
so if you post twice a week and your
post is seen by a hundred people each
time that your weekly reach is 200 but
if you're posting seven times a week
that's 700 so it's just an easy win so
my second tip is to build a wait list or
email list as soon as possible this
might be if you're pre-launch or it
might be if you've already got a brand
if you are not focusing on email that is
just some really low-hanging fruit for
you email accounts for around thirty to
forty percent
the revenue of my brands so a really
good way to begin building your email
list is to have a on website pop-up so
you want that pop-up to incentivize
people to sign up to your email list you
can use tools like just you know or sumo
need to be able to create a content
unlock or discount unlock pop-up so that
might be enter your email the download
our free ebook enter your email Adam
load a free challenge into your email
for five dollars off your purchase or
10% off your purchase it really depends
on what you're able to offer it might be
a free gift for example so start to
capture emails today because my third
tip is going to be to start doing email
blast ads so you should be emailing your
list at least one time a week to stay
front of mind and to be able to keep
your list health up so your list health
really determines the deliverability of
your emails into people's inbox we don't
wanna be going into spam we want to be
going straight into their inbox to get
as much exposure as possible because
again email outside of what you're
paying for hosting through your platform
that might be MailChimp or klaviyo
it's basically a free marketing tactic
so we basically want to be emailing that
list at least once a week and we want to
have some automated flows set up as well
so some of the baseline sequences that
we always have set up is a welcome
sequence you're welcome email gets
around 50 percent open rate which is
around 20 to 30 percent above industry
standard so we definitely always want to
welcome email and you want to have a
sequence in place of those welcome
emails to try to convert as many new
email subscribers as possible into
customers the next one that we always
have set up is our abandoned cart emails
and another sequence that you could have
set up is a product sequence that
educates people on your top products top
sellers some of the benefits of those so
there are three email sequences that you
should have set up from the get-go so my
fourth tip is all about increasing your
average order value and your customer
lifetime value so these are two of the
metrics that you really want to focus on
in your e-commerce stores but we'll be
chatting on those a little later so what
you want to do is focus on upsells cross
sells and bundles so an upsell is when
somebody is
to purchase your product being able to
sell them more of that same product so
it might be okay they were going to buy
one drop bottle now they can you know
see our friends pack which is to drop
bottles or our family pack which is four
drop bottles they're also our bundles
which we'll get to in a sec but it's
basically getting people to buy more
than they were already going through by
discounting them to buy more a cross
sell is more so I spoke earlier a little
bit on a hydration mix for example that
would be a great complementary product
with drop bottle because it is in line
with our core offering which is helping
people stay hydrated so it would be
another way to kind of solve that
problem so if we added a hydration mix
that would be a great cross sell for our
product then there's bundles so bundles
are basically like I spoke about earlier
without upsells for drop bottle we've
bundled those into different packs which
make it easy and simple to show the
discount rate for that we even have a
custom user experience built around our
bundles where people can easily and
interactively select the bundle that
they want and the price goes up and down
so that's been a really great thing for
us so my fifth tip is all about micro
influences we use micro influences to
gift our product out to and they are
able to provide free exposure and free
content for our brand in return for that
product so when it comes to influencer
marketing I always focus on the three
hours to find the right influencer for
your brand so the first R is rich and as
I said we're focusing on micro
influences the reason we're focusing on
micro influences they have very powerful
engaged niche communities that are often
a lot more focused toward a niche than
just a general broader community which
is often the case with more macro
influences so that's why we want to
focus on micro influences here so reach
we're looking for micro which will be
around five to 50,000 followers in size
is what we'll be targeting here because
they're also the most likely to be
willing to post your product simply in
return for gifting the next R is
relevancy so we want to find influencers
who are within your niche or category
and a relevant to your
so some places that you can look here
are at other brands within your category
as I said that doesn't have to be a
competitive brand but it could be like I
said for drop bottle it could be a
hydration mix or it could be a protein
brand so they're people who are already
targeting consumers who are looking to
improve their health and well-being so
you can easily go through make a list of
brands within your category and check
out some of the influences that they're
working with that's a really really easy
starting point and then the third R is
relationships so you want to make sure
that the influencer has as strong a
relationship with their followers as
possible so on Instagram that will
probably mean that they do quite a bit
of video content as well or they might
have a youtube presence so youtube
influences have a very very strong
relationship with their community and if
that community has now gone across and
followed them on Instagram it means that
they're they're kind of superfans so
they're the people that we've really
really want to target so a good
indicator of a strong relationship will
be a lot of comments and probably like a
two-way dialogue between the influencer
and their audience so they might reply
to comments often people might ask their
advice on things they might ask them
where they got certain things they're
all really good signs that there's trust
within that community because basically
with influencer marketing the main thing
that you're leveraging is the trust that
that influencer has with their audience
otherwise you may as well just be
marketing to cold traffic so my sixth
tip is content marketing so you might
just think that's things like blogging
but that can also include things like
user-generated content which I'm going
to touch on a little later so blogging
is a great place to start and what you
want to do is begin with keyword
research you want to find the terms that
people are searching for the most and
write about those this is how it helps
to improve your SEO which is your search
engine optimization because when people
are searching for those certain terms we
want to be coming up or ranking for
those terms so blogging is something
that you really shouldn't ignore it's
another easy way to get free traffic to
your site so my seventh tip is utilizing
customer reviews and user-generated
content so we use loops for this L oo X
which is just a
easy plugin Shopify app so customers are
able to leave photo and captioned
reviews this really really helps us
social proof the photo reviews are
actually far more powerful than just
having a text-based review because your
customers are kind of able to see your
product in action so it's a lot more
realistic because a lot of the time in
e-commerce you're not just selling a
product you're selling an experience and
this way your customers are able to kind
of experience your product through other
people through their peers who are also
purchasing your product so that is
amazing social proof social proof again
just helps to build trust in the same
sort of way that influencers do
influences are more so word-of-mouth or
social proof at scale because they've
got a larger audience but a lot of the
time the trust is even stronger when it
comes to utilizing your own customers so
make sure you collect as many reviews as
possible you might want to have an email
sequence that is a post purchase
sequence that asks after they've
purchased your product a certain amount
of time after say they've purchased our
28 day detox we'll ask them about five
weeks after the purchase so we'll ask
them for their review they'll upload
that hopefully it's positive and we're
in our way so my eighth tip is viral
giveaways and again these are a really
great way to grow without needing to put
too much budget in so with the fifth we
ran a giveaway with a platform called
gleam and we gave away 14 watches over
the space of 14 days so one of the
really important things when it comes to
viral giveaways is baking virality or
shareability into your competition as
well so you don't just want to be like
okay enter sign up with your email
because that's private what you want to
do is be encouraging each person that
signs up to then share your competition
on that might be on social media it
might be directly via email you just
want them to be getting more and more
people to be entering as well that's
often referred to as their viral
coefficient so for each person that
enters imagine you're getting one other
person to enter and then that one other
person gets one other person you can see
how it kind of propagates itself another
platform that you can use for these
giveaways is called VIPRE which we did
for our early
bottle giveaway with v will able to
generate 80,000 new emails in just 14
days and this was really a case of being
able to convert a lot of our organic
social following that we spoke about in
tip 1 into our email subscribers which
we spoke about in tip 2 and 3 so this is
a way to kind of bring all of that
together and be able to leverage that to
grow your brand exponentially so number
9 is a kind of newer strategy that we've
just started using it's text message
abandoned cart we use an app at the
moment called tobe abounding cart so the
benefit of text messages is that they
have a far higher and faster
open rate so I think it's something like
80 to 90 percent of people open their
text messages within the first 15
minutes of receiving them I'm definitely
not one of those people so as opposed to
email the open rate over the lifespan of
an email a lot of the time is like 20 to
30 percent so imagine getting 80 to 90
percent in the first 15 minutes so
that's definitely something that we want
to be taking advantage of so a text
message abandon cart works in the same
sort of way that an email abandon cart
does you know when you left items in
your cart before and then you know 15
minutes later you might get an email
with a discount code saying it you've
left items in your cart just to remind
you to check out so basically it's
exactly the same it's just via text
message so my tenth and final tip are
Facebook and Instagram video ads if
you're not utilizing video and your
advertising yet you are leaving money on
the table so the main tips that I'd give
to these are to make sure that they're
captioned I think it's 85 to 90 percent
of people watch Facebook and Instagram
with their sound off so if you're not
using captions in your video you're
losing that audience the next thing that
we want to be doing is highlighting the
brand we want to create a bit of a
narrative and we want to talk about the
benefits of the product so a lot of the
time of really really good kind of
formula for days that we use again and
again is to have a compelling hook then
you want to move on to some social proof
or a stat that highlights the problem
once you've highlighted the problem you
want to focus on your product as a salon
to that problem so you want to focus on
the benefits of your product so not
necessarily
here's drop bottle it's glass it has a
fruit infuser it's more so what does
that mean for your customer or your user
so it helps you stay hydrated of course
a lot of people find drinking water very
boring so if you're able to infuse fruit
and herbs easily into your water it's
easier to stay hydrated so that's the
benefits side then you want to finish up
with maybe a bit more social proof so
that might be influences using your
product it might be how many customers
you've had it might be highlighting your
following on social media I think
everybody can find some social proof at
some point it might even just be
customer review is like we spoke about
earlier
then you want to go into your offer and
this is really important so that you're
able to kind of take people from start
to finish on a bit of a journey and they
may be ready to buy at this point so now
you hit them with your offer which might
be a discount code it might be free
shipping it all just depends on what
you're able to offer so make your offer
as compelling it as possible so there is
a my top 10 ecommerce marketing tips if
you liked this content it would be great
if you left a comment below we're going
to be replying to all of these comments
actually so a really good thing that you
could do is let us know your top
marketing problem that you're having
right now in your business so leave us a
comment below and we'll get back to you
so if you want to find out more about me
and my story as well as more tips like
the ones in this video you can check out
my free master class with founder which
is just by the link below so guys
hopefully you enjoyed today and I'll be
seeing you soon hopefully in the master
class the founder mission is to help you
create an ass-kickin business and help
you learn straight from the mouths of
world-class founders get your free
printed edition of founder magazine
featuring Sir Richard Branson just cover
shipping and handling at founder com
forward slash Branson